AI Network is a new kind of cloud service platform built on the foundation of blockchain technology. Through this novel infrastructure, microservices developed by individual developers can be instantly integrated into the network of computers. AI Network has three characteristics to create a more intuitive backend system:
1. It is built on a concurrent, scalable, and reliable blockchain.
2. It is designed to serve applications, with quality guaranteed through a decentralized contract between developers and resource providers.
3. It is governed by the independent developer community, which aims to contribute to the evolution of the Open Source community.
Imagine an open, interoperable ecosystem of cloud services, built by developers and organizations to help operate global applications that people use on a daily basis. 
No single company owns these applications. Instead, developers all over the world contribute small parts of applications, thus making constant small improvements to the global applications that people around the world use every day. 
In order to achieve this long-term vision, the blockchain is built from the ground up to prioritize scalability, concurrency, and efficiency in computational throughput.
The AI Network currency is achieved through the “AI Network Blockchain.” 
Our ecosystem's unit of currency is called “AIN.” 
AIN needs to be reserved when accessing deployed services on blockchain. 
To have confidence that its value will remain relatively stable over time, solution providers and resource providers agree on contracts, and a certain amount of AIN is deposited in order to guarantee this contract. 
Through these contracts, a significant portion of AIN will be deposited on blockchain building trust in its intrinsic value. While the AI Network teams play a crucial role in the initial stage of the AI Network Blockchain protocol, the community of developers and resource providers hold the final 5 decision-making authority. AI Network Blockchain is an open source project, which allows millions of open source projects to maintain their services online. AI Network blockchain is a permissionless blockchain, which means any computer in the world is free to participate as a validator node or a resource provider. 
Validators are responsible for verifying communication between developers and resource providers. Developers who initiate services are capable of configuring permission settings. This means only entities that meet specific requirements can be resource nodes for a certain deployed program. In summary, the AI Network blockchain composed of permissionless nodes records rules for service communication, and programs are then executed off the blockchain by resource providers who monitor the blockchain, following the communication rules agreed on the blockchain.